# Channels

## Introduction

All messages are routed through channels, and channel topics are where clients subscribe to listen for new messages. Channels define 3 public methods that can be used:

* `handle_joined` - Called when a user joins a channel.
* `handle_message` - Called when a user sends a message to a channel.  A common message handler will simply rebroadcast the message to the other subscribers with `rebroadcast!` method.
* `handle_leave` - Called when a user leaves the channel.

## Example Usage

A channel can be generated by calling `amber g channel ChatRoomChannel`.

```ruby
class ChatRoomChannel < Amber::Websockets::Channel

  # optional
  # Authorization can happen here  
  def handle_joined(client_socket, message)
    # channel join related functionality
    # if client_socket.session[:user_id] != message["payload"]["user_id"]
    #   client_socket.disconnect!
    # end
  end

  # required
  def handle_message(client_socket, msg)
    rebroadcast!(msg)
  end

  # optional
  def handle_leave(client_socket)
    # channel leave functionality    
  end
end
```

## What happens when a user joins?

The `handle_joined` method is invoked when a user lands on a web page that has a `new Amber.Socket` established through the JavaScript on it.
This method allows you to run any logic needed to authorize who should be connected to a channel. This is also a great 
way to send out a `#{name} has joined the chat!` message to all those currently listening to the channel.

## How are messages broadcasted?

Whenever a user sends a message that is broadcasted through the JavaScript `channel.push` function, the `handle_message` methed is invoked. 
Here the message is then rebroadcasted to all those who are connected to the channel. The message is then transmitted through the 
`channel.on('message_new')` listener in the JavaScript. Before the message gets broadcasted, here is where you would want to insert records into your 
database, if you wanted to keep a history of messages sent or received.

## What happens when a user leaves?

When a user leaves the web page that currently has an established socket connection, the connection breaks and triggers a message to be sent 
on the servers side. The `handle_leave` method handles this in the channels class. Here is where a message such as `#{name} has left the chat!` could 
be sent out to all connected clients.
